<h1>push_swap</h1>


<h2>Description</h2>

The push_swap project is a sorting algorithm challenge designed to work with two stacks: a and b. The goal is to sort the numbers in stack a in ascending order using the fewest possible operations. The stack initially contains a set of random, non-duplicated integers, while stack b starts empty. You must use a predefined set of operations to manipulate the elements between these stacks.

<h2>Operations</h2>

Here is a list of operations available to manipulate the stacks:

<ul>
  <li>sa: Swap the first two elements at the top of stack a.</li>
  <li>sb: Swap the first two elements at the top of stack b.</li>
  <li>pa: Push the top element of stack b onto stack a.</li>
  <li>pb: Push the top element of stack a onto stack b.</li>
  <li>ra: Rotate stack a (shift all elements up, the first becomes the last).</li>
  <li>rb: Rotate stack b.</li>
  <li>rra: Reverse rotate stack a (shift all elements down, the last becomes the first).</li>
  <li>rrb: Reverse rotate stack b.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Project Rules</h2>

<ul>
  <li>The program must minimize the number of operations needed to sort the stack.</li>
  <li>Every instructions is printed separated on a newline.</li>
  <li>There's a limit in number of operations allowed based on the number of elements that are in the stack</li>
</ul>


<h2>Usage</h2>

The program takes a list of integers as input and outputs a sequence of operations required to sort stack a. <br>
Here you have an example:

```bash
$ ./push_swap 2 1 3 6 5 8
sa
pb pb
pb sa
pa pa
pa
```


<h2>Bonus</h2>

This optional part of the project is creates a checker program that verifies if the sequence of operations generated by push_swap correctly sorts stack a. The checker reads instructions from standard input and verifies that after all the operations, stack a is sorted and stack b is empty.


<h2>Compilation Instructions</h2>

Type <strong><code>make</code></strong> to generate the executable <strong><code>push_swap</code></strong>

For the checker type <strong><code>make bonus</code></strong> to generate the executable <strong><code>checker</code></strong>








